>> Steve Kinney: So go ahead,
we need to do more now.
All right, so
we'll go ahead and we'll, yeah,
finally make that AJAX request, right.
But we have to say what happens next,
and so we'll take that result.
And so this is why we need the merge map,
right, cuz we're taking the result and
we're piping that through
a series of functions.
Which is basically,
cool, you got an action,
it's of the type FETCH_CHARACTER,
fire off an AJAX request.
Well, what you wanna do with that result?
If you remember when we did the thunks,
we had the .then.
As we were like, okay,
get the response, make sure it's JSON,
right, this is the .getJSON, so
we'll be a little bit better off there.
So we'll get the response, but
then we need to take that response and map
it into the action that we want, right,
which is this fetchCharactersFulfilled.
>> Steve Kinney: Right,
so then we'll map it.
>> Steve Kinney: Cuz we need to
put the type and stuff on it.
We'll take the response, we'll use our
action creator with the response.result.
All right, prettier, do your thing, cool.
So if it's type FETCH_CHARACTER,
fire off the AJAX,
take that AJAX request,
run it through its own pipe.
And then transform it into the action and
then get it back up to the top
level cuz we're nested.
There's a learning curve, [LAUGH] right,
there's an absolute learning curve.
Hopefully that the power is, is like,
it's not terrible to think about
RXJS as like Lodash for async.
Right, so there's a whole bunch of
functions, you want it to bounce, cool.
You wanna make it so you're not,
if there's already a request in flight,
you don't wanna fire off another one,
neat.
You wanna wait a certain amount of time,
awesome, right?
You can do all sorts of stuff that,
if you did this in Redux Thunk by hand,
would be really, really tricky.
Right, you'd end up writing half
of RXJS yourself, probably, so
there definitely is a learning curve.
But we found,
even when we bring on junior engineers,
they are able to pretty much
pick it up pretty quickly.
Cuz there's not too many
things that we end up doing.
Predominantly, we're doing something
very similar to this, right,
which we then wrap up in an abstraction,
right?
Mostly, we're making AJAX calls, right?
We might check to see if we
already have some data and
do something different,
we might try to throttle some of them.
But in our decently large app,
we're not doing all that much.
So while this seems
a little bit intimidating,
one of the things I like is that
actions come in, actions come out.
I've taken all of this kind
of strange complexity, and
I've moved it kinda to the side.
And I've kept a purity to my Redux
in my React application, right?
And the Redux observable part is small,
the RXJS part is like, okay,
what is going on here, right?
It's because RXJS is incredibly
powerful and does a lot for you, but
that means it has a learning curve, right?
Redux Thunk, super simple, man,
I just match a function, and
that dispatches the action when it's done.
But you're on your own, and
that's a kind of trade off,
I don't have a right answer for
you, right?
We made the choice that
in the application,
we're trying to set the foundation for
the next three to five years.
We made the choice that we
decided to have patterns and
complexity that we are willing to
deal with for stability, right?
And to know that we weren't gonna
have to massively rework stuff later.
That's the decision that we made, but
it might be very different for you.
All right,
let's actually get that hooked up now.
>> Steve Kinney: I could've just
called that epic.js, but here we are.
So we've got this create middleware,
which is cool.
We're gonna import the rootEpic,
or just the epic, but
the same way we called it
a root reducer before.
>> Steve Kinney: From this
fetch-character-epic.
So now we need to, a little bit lower,
we'll go ahead and we'll say,
epicMiddleware = createEpicMiddleware().
That will create us a new instance, and
then we can pass that to the store.
And the same way we did with the thunk,
applyMiddleware(epicMiddleware).
I don't know why I get so
much enjoyment out of doing that.
>> Steve Kinney: And then we do need
to do one thing, it's the same.
Redux Saga comes with the same advantages,
where its actions async
stuff just using ES6 generators instead,
and it's true for both of these.
We do epicMiddleware, sorry,
with that root and you have to run it.
>> Steve Kinney: Right, and what this
will do is, so we give it the store,
we put the middleware in place.
I've said this a few times now,
it sits along the side listening for
the stream of actions, and
transforming them as needed.
So we just have to be like,
hey, start listening,
we're gonna have some actions
flow through here, right?
So we've got these actions in place,
actually don't need this,
>> Steve Kinney: Up here.
So we have the searchTerm in there,
and we have the ability here.
We've got an individual character,
that's a kinda stateless prop,
it's got this kinda
hardcoded URL in there.
We just need to kinda map this together,
so we'll go ahead and we'll do that.
>> Steve Kinney: And this is gonna to be
kind of we have that fetchCharacters,
remember, that we created
the very beginning.
And we're just going to,
>> Steve Kinney: Nope, good try.
>> Steve Kinney: Gotta connect,
and we're just gonna say, hey.
>> Steve Kinney: Well just connect
it in here like we did before.
>> Steve Kinney: null for
the map state to prop.
>> Steve Kinney: And,
>> Steve Kinney: This fetchCharacters.
>> Steve Kinney: All right,
take a look in that reducer.
>> Steve Kinney: All right, so
what is it gonna be, it's if,
now it's gonna be action.type.
We only care about when it's,
we could show a loading indicator
if we get the first one through.
But right now,
we mostly care about the second one.
So we could listen for FETCH_CHARACTERS,
cuz even though the epic is receiving it
and transforming it, we still get it in
our regular reducer, so we could do stuff,
we want actually fulfilled, hold on.
>> Steve Kinney: Cool, and we'll say
return this action.payload.characters.
>> Steve Kinney: All right, so we'll have
it in place, this little fly-through,
when we get some characters in place,
we should see that.
The other thing we're gonna need to do is,
let's just take a look at
the actual characters component.
It's receiving all the characters as well,
so we're gonna need to get those in place.
Cool, this will be pretty easy to do,
we'll just say,
>> Steve Kinney: Pull
the characters off,
>> Steve Kinney: Of state.
>> Steve Kinney: All right, so
this should have everything we need,
now let's fire it up and see.
We did a decent amount of coding there.
>> Steve Kinney: Nothing's not compiling,
though.
>> Steve Kinney: All right, so let's take
a look and we'll see what we're missing.
Give me one second just to look, and
then we'll round back and
see what the issue is.
>> Steve Kinney: So I made a rookie
mistake, I was trying to code and
talk at the same time, and
I'm half good at either of those.
I'm very good at talking [LAUGH].
What I did was,
I passed the dispatch to the characters,
when I should have given
it to the input field.
So I don't need to pass the dispatch
there, I just had to put it in,
the thing that's doing the fetching of
the characters needed to know how to fetch
characters.
So just a silly mistake where I
put it on the wrong component.
But that led me to some interesting
kind of tidbits on debugging.
Which is, in that stream where like it's
a function returning another function,
it can be a little tricky to
figure out how to console log and
to be able to debug.
So one trick that I like,
it's really simple, and
I'm almost borderline glad this came up,
is that if you need to do
stuff in the actual epic.
So I also made the mistake of,
I had result singular instead of result
plural, which is my MO at this point.
One of the things that you can do is,
hey, I want to interject but
I don't wanna interrupt the flow, right?
We know that console log returns
undefined, it's all weird.
We wanna say, hey, I wanna tap
into the stream, do a thing, but
I wanna take the same value and
keep it going.
Right, I don't wanna interrupt
the stream of events.
And so there's a function called tap,
tap exists in Lodash too, and
it exists actually in Ruby.
tap is basically a method or
a function that, you do some stuff, and
you return whatever object
it was originally, right?
So in Ruby, if you call as, I wish that
JavaScript had it on the object, right?
Which is, you call tap,
you have some functionality, but
then you get the return value
is that original object again.
Lodash takes an object and a function, you
can do a bunch of stuff with that object,
but you'll get back the object again.
jQuery kind of does this as a default,
you can do whatever you want,
you're gonna get another jQuery object.
So you can actually use, there's a tap
operator, which allows you to do a thing.
So we'll just say tap, and
then what we'll return the value out.
So you can say something like value,
console.log(value), and
again, console log returns undefined,
which normally would break your stream.
But it'll actually allow you to do
a thing, tap into the stream, if you will.
Console log or do whatever other
things you need to do, and
then return that initial value back,
right, so it's a great way to debug.
Turns out, we can also do some
other interesting things in here,
which is, we can keep it there as well.
We can also, cancel, right, which is
a thing that Redux observable gives us.
It's one of the reasons why you might
wanna pay the complexity cost for
Redux observable, right?
RXJS comes with a lot of power tools to do
things like, I mean, if you did this in
Redux Sonic, you might have to fire
a new action that said canceled.
That then we need to know to
ignore the next fulfilled event,
I don't want to do that, right?
I would rather, I tend to prefer
battle-tested libraries rather
than my own bespoke solution that's
never been out into the wild.
So what we wanna do is,
if we wanted to implement cancellation,
i do wanna show it to you fully working.
We'll see it with the tap in place.
>> Steve Kinney: Which is, I can begin,
>> Steve Kinney: And
this API has some delay on it on purpose.
>> Steve Kinney: It did fix it,
let's see, then I typed a bunch more and
did some random things, so that's fine.
>> Steve Kinney: Launch the reducer,
>> Steve Kinney: So
it says the FETCH_CHARACTER_FULFILLED,
reducer characters returned undefined.
Let's just check that out for a second,
should I have that action there?
>> Steve Kinney: It's just the payload,
it's not payload.characters.